Deadfrog lib has its own bitmap font file format. The file extension is .dfbf.
A single file can contain multiple sizes of the same font.


Comparison with Microsoft .FON files
------------------------------------

1. The Deadfrog font file will be about 1/3rd the size of the same font stored
in a .FON file.

2. The parser (to load in the font file) is simpler (200 vs 300 lines of C).


Comparison with all the other bitmap font formats
-------------------------------------------------

They're all produce even larger files and require even more complex parsers.


# Why use bitmap fonts when everyone else uses vector fonts?

* Vector fonts are complex - hard to implement a small parser.

* They are large.

* They are hard to author.

* For small pixel sizes, you need to specify the font at the pixel level
anyway, otherwise it'll be a blurry mess if anti-aliased, or an ugly mess if
not. (Windows' ClearType mostly avoid the blurry/ugly mess problem by doing a
great job of "hinting" their fonts and doing a great job of subpixel
anti-aliasing. The problems there is that you'll never be able to author your
own fonts that are as well hinted, you can't redistribute theirs to guarantee
them being available, and rendering anti-aliased text is slow anyway because it
requires read-modify-write on each pixel instead of just write).


File format definition
----------------------

Bytes 0:3 are the id string "dfbf".

Byte 4 is the format version. The only known version is currently version 0.
Version 0 only supports monochrome bitmap fonts. All font files define 224
glyphs, covering extended ASCII codes from 32 to 255.

Byte 5 is the number of fonts (ie sizes) in the file, called num_fonts.

Byte 6 to 6 + num_fonts * 4 are offsets to the start of each font.

== Font ==

Within the block of data for each font.

Byte 0 is the width of the widest glyph, in pixels. If the font is fixed
width, then all the glyphs are this width.

Byte 1 is the height of the font, in pixels. This is the vertical spacing of
adjacent rows of text.

Byte 2 contains flags.
    bit 1 indicates if the font is fixed width or variable width. 0=fixed,
    1=variable.

If the font is variable width, the next 224 bytes are the widths of each glyph.

The remaining bytes are an RLE encoded bitmap. Some details about the bitmap:
 * The bitmap has 16 glyphs per row and 14 rows (16 * 14 = 224).
 * The first row defines glyphs for ASCII values 32 to 47. The next from 48 to
   63, and so on.
 * The horizontal spacing of the glyphs on the bitmap is the same for fixed and
   variable width fonts. For example, if the widest glyph is 7 pixels wide, the
   first glyph of the row starts in column 0, the second in column 7.
 * The vertical spacing of the glyphs is the only sensible one. The pitch is
   the font height.
 * There is no padding at the end of the rows of pixels (unlike, say, in a MS
   .FON file).

Decoding the RLE'd bitmap works roughly like this:
 1. Start with the "pen" colour being black.
 2. Start with the "pen" at the top left of the bitmap (x=0, y=0).
 3. Read the run length from the input stream.
 4. Draw that many pixels in the current pen colour moving right horizontally.
 5. Toggle the pen colour (eg from black to white).
 6. If there's any input left, goto step 3.

Note 1: When the pen reaches the right hand edge of the bitmap, do x = 0; y++;
That is allowed to happen in the middle of a run.

Note 2: Run lengths larger than 15 require the use of an escape code. The
value of the escape code is 0. If the decoder receives an escape code, it
must then read the next 8 bits as the run length. This allows run lengths
up to 255 to be represented. If more than that is needed, runs of 255 must be
combined seperated by runs of 0. Runs of 0 are encoded using the escape code.

Once un-RLE'ing is done, the resulting bitmap needs further processing. In
order to make the Run Length Encoding more efficient, a simple filter was
applied to the bitmap before it was encoded (by whatever made the font file).
The filter is simply to XOR each row of pixels with the previous row.
